[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: A couple
questions from Dylan.
How do you add the no CPU throttling
button in the timeline tab?
>> Jon: Okay, so that one is, that's
like a very, very brand new feature.
So it's only on Canary, and
it's likely only on the latest
minor version of Canary.
So maybe just checking to see if you're
eligible for an update on Chrome Canary.
Actually I lied, cut that,
it's an experiment.
Even in Canary I think,
I wanna cover experiments later but for
now you can go to the three dots and
settings and then I think we're
gonna cover this in a bit if you have
this, it is totally an experiment.
Can we hold off maybe on that and I'll
we're gonna cover experiments in the end
you have to like turn him on and
stuff like that?
Sorry about that.
So that's an experimental
feature even in Canary.
>> Speaker 1: And
then the next question is from Juan,
who would like to ask if there's
any way to find the corresponding
function in sources from the main
call stack on the Timeline tab.
>> Jon: Yeah, so [COUGH] if you're in here
in the main call stack, and you get down
to whatever function you want like this
anonymous function and you click on it.
It'll change what's in the summary this JS
frame, you scroll down to the bottom of
the summary and
you'll be able to click on the exact line.
Keep in mind like some of these
are just externally loaded resources.
Like YouTube and beds or whatever will
actually take you to the YouTube code.
So it's gonna take a second but
you can do it that way.
>> Speaker 1: Okay, and
the next question is from John.
Some scripts are green and
some are purple.
Does it color the scripts depending
on the domain or the file?
>> Jon: Yeah, well,
that's a really good question.
I don't know how it colors the scripts.
It's really interesting.
You see like that the colors for
all the other section are labeled but
I'm really not sure it's got this
whole like pastel colors scheme here.
I'm not sure how colors than I do I do see
like kinda immediately that like native
abends being triggered
showing up in yellow.
But I have no idea how it does if
the difference between the pastel blue and
purple and green.
I'm not sure.
It's a good question.
Cool, and I also saw on
the chat that some people were,
it was crashing when they were doing this.
I played around with it.
I think some of the crashes, something
experimental in Canary because it's not
It's not that slow for
me in stable Chrome.
But also I just had a lot of really
bad practices going on on this site.
So that's probably when I went
a little bit overboard on that.
What I ended up kinda doing
is I just went through and
I just deleted some of these images.
And this is from profiling.pug.
So you could do that too,
if you needed to speed it up.
Cool, so I guess the first thing I would
do, just to kind of walk through it,
is do a full audit and reload the page.
So it's gonna reload
the page in the background,
and when that's done take
a look at what the audit says.
I'd also, if the site were online, I would
run it through Google page feed insights,
like I mentioned before, just to
get some more in-depth information.
So some of the stuff like you know
those things that we covered.
I'm serving to many JavaScript file so
any any kind of teak manger to bundle
all of those together would be help.
G.Z compression.
Again, it depends on your platform but
for node and
Express which is what my app is there's
a MPM module called compression.
So you can just add him install and
then app use compression and
will reduce it for you.
Browser caching, this is a little tricky.
So you can specify like time,
freshness lifetime whatever on your files.
Sometimes you're gonna get this though
with files that are not yours,like so
if you're using like the YouTube and
video and bad's or
SoundCloud or Facebook, any of that.
You don't always have control over that.
But some of these, we could.
Cookie size.
A lot of cookies.
Again, I'm not setting
these cookies manually.
They're just like YouTube trackers and
stuff like that.
So again,
it's like if you need a YouTube embed,
you take the good with the bad, basically.
And then, we've got a ton of CSS rules,
again I'm using boot strap and
I only have like five
elements on this page.
So it's like an image and
some paragraphs, so
there's a lot of unnecessary
CSS is coming over the wire.
So it started there, and so get a bundler,
get the gzip compression going,
crop down bootstrap to just
the CSS that I need,
those are probably your biggest wins.
And then, kinda going over timeline.
I'll hit a refresh,
see if it crashes for me.
This one's real slow.
[LAUGH] I went overboard on making
it as not performant as possible.
So basically, I mean even while
this is loading, if it's loading.
We can see that the images taken
a noticeably long time to load in.
I'm getting getting the crash I think.
We might hop over to Chrome, and see if
I can do it in Chrome stable, just so
I can at least show everybody
what's going on with it.
>> Jon: And also that run.
>> Jon: So this looks mostly the same as
what we're looking at a few things I think
have been minor redesigns So we see right
off the bat this huge chunk of yellow.
Like the whole CPU is basically
executing JavaScript the whole time.
Nothing really looks bad as far
as the memory stuff goes, so
I'm gonna hide that one for now.
Again, we don't see that jigsaw
pattern that we are watching out for.
So that's fine.
The screen paints are a little bit bad.
So the cool thing about doing these
profiles is you start getting really
comfortable with like the patterns
that you'll see here.
So we see like you always see the green
bump at the beginning because you have to
run to the page like I said.
And I'm almost 100% sure that
all of these green bumps and
all this page junk here
is from YouTube stuff.
I'd imagine that it's like loading in the
YouTube UI and Chrome and stuff like that.
So we can check that out.
And just kinda see you.
So another thing I think
I didn't mention but
you can like drag it to select any area as
opposed to like trying to scroll in on it.
But so then we can kinda
like come over here and see,
so these are all like all of that stuff is
like calling all these embed players and
then this gets into
YouTube the minified code.
Another good note with this is like, if
you're, concatenating is really important
but a lot of people minified their code
to their JavaScript which like turns
all the variables in the single letter
variable names and things like that.
If at all possible make sure your
development build is does not minifying so
that when you look at something like
the callStack you're not seeing h
calls an anonymous function,
calls e, calls m but
you see something that's like
more meaningful than that.
So either way, basically the all
those YouTube videos are causing
a bunch of screen junk that's like
my first take away right here.
So I project a low those in asynchronously
if I could just like render the page and
then load those iFrames in.
There's a ton of JavaScript going on.
So there's kinda two approaches
that we could take care.
We can pick a section that's
like very JavaScript heavy and
then we can see what it is that
it's doing, what's taking so long.
Is like this base.js and we could
kind of go in here click on it and
then we could pre-print it, so now we're
back in the sources area it's gonna take
a minute and it's YouTube player.
So it's like the iFrame call out,
there are calling this base thing and
it's like this YouTube
boot strapping process.
So again, a lot of that JavaScript could
be not resolved, cuz it's okay to do a lot
of work in the main thread, but it could
be done after the whole page is loaded.
If you use JavaScript to load
these in asynchronously.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
So speaking of the YouTube I'm betting on,
so
earlier you had talked about how when you
were trying to do a page on it it will not
necessarily pick up on CSS
rules that are being applied
to other pages in your site and to
anything that is potentially interactive.
On the audit results some of
the removed unused CSS rules tab,
it picks up no CSS rules being used in
the CSS files for the YouTube embeds.
Is that the primary reason why it's
not picking up any used style rules or
is that another reason?
>> Jon: So let me make sure I understand.
So we're in the audits tab.
I think I've got it open.
I got multiple dev tools going on here.
So when we ran the audit,
there was the unused CSS rules?
>> Speaker 3: Right.
>> Jon: And it wasn't picking up things
that are applying to the YouTube?
>> Speaker 3: Right, it was saying that
100% of the CSS rules in each YouTube
embed CSS file is not being
used on the current page.
>> Jon: Got you.
>> [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 3: What you were talking about
is the primary reason why that's the case.
>> Jon: Yes.
I think there's like two different things
going on there.
Like one, all those YouTube embeds
are iFrames, so their page source
is going to be different, but the resource
still comes through to your page.
Like you're downloading the CSS but
you're not responsible for that markup.
The other thing that is definitely, like
what I was talking about before is that,
YouTube loads these multi level.
So it's like that image comes in.
And so, this audit is only as good as
when DOM content loaded event fires.
So all the like Chrome that
starts coming in afterwards and
all that staff isn't gonna be present
when DOM content loaded fire.
So like a lot of it is just markup
that's coming in asynchronously.